# Chapter 20

## Organization
Organization is a free governance tool that allows you to create and manage multiple AWS accounts. 

Features:
- Logging Accounts
- Programmatic Creation
- Reserved Instances (RIs)
- Consolidated Billing

Service Control Policies - once applied it will apply to every single accounts including root account


## AWS RAM (Resource Access Manager)

What can we shared using AWS RAM?
- Transit Gateway
- VPC subnets 
- License Manager
- Dedicated Hosts
- Route53 Resolver

RAM is better than VPC peering when it comes to same network or regions.


## Cross Account Role Access
Cross Account Role Access - gives the ability to setup temporary access you can control

## Inventory Management with AWS Config

Config - inventory mgmt and control tool. Shows history of infrastructure along with creating rules to make sure it conforms to best practices

3 State of Architecture
- Query - query by resource type
- Enforce - create rules
- Learn - tell history


Why Config:
- Standards
- Delete Resource (logs)
- Enforcement: automation documents or Lambda
- Consolidation: roll up your results to a single region


## Directory Service
Directory Service - fully managed versions of Active Directory (AD). 

Type of Directory Service:
- Managed Microsoft AD: AD suite build by AWS
- AD Connector: tunnel between AWS and on-premises AD
- Simple AD: powered by Linux Samba AD

## Cost Explorer
Cost Explorer is an easy to use tool that allows you to visualize your cloud costs. 
- It lets you build reports
- Break down services 
- Timeframe
- Filter

## AWS Budgets
It is a tool allows organizations to easily plan and set expectations around cloud costs. Create alerts to users or actions to start stop EC2 instances. 

4 Types of Budgets:
- Cost
- Usage
- Reservation

## Trusted Advisor
Trusted Advisor - fully managed best-practice auditing tool. It scans 5 diff parts of your account and look for places where you could improve your adoption of recommendation best practices provided by AWS

5 areas:
- Cost Ops
- Performance
- Security
- Fault Tolerance
- Service Limits

