# Chapter 11

Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) - auto distributes incoming app traffic across multiple targets (EC2). Can be done across multiple AZs. 


App LB: load balancer of HTTP or HTTPs. Operate at Layer 7 and are app ware. "Intel LB"
Network LB: operating at connection level (Layer 4). Capable of handling millions of requests per second, while maintain ultra low latency. "Performance LB"
Classic LB: legacy, can load balance HTTP/HTTPs app use Layer 7 specific features X-Forwarded and sticky sessions. "Classic/Test/Dev LB"

All LB can be configured with Health Checks
Health Check: query EC2 behind the LB check if they are still up and running "Health" (In Service), status of EC2 unhealth = (Out Service).


## Application LB
Layer 7 LB - it evaluates the listener rules in priority order to determine which rule to apply, and then selects a target from target groups for the rule action. 

Listen: checks for connection requests from clients, using the protocol and port you configure

Rules: when conditions for a rule met, actions are performed

Target Groups: route requests to one/more registered targets such as EC2

<b> Application LB only supports HTTP and HTTPs </b>

To use HTTPs listen you need one SSL/TLS server cert on the LB. The LB uses the server cert to terminate the frontend connection and decrypt requests from clients before sending to the targets

## Extreme Performance w/ Network LB

Request Received: after LB receives a connection request, it selects a target from target group for the default rule. It attempts to open a TCP connection to the selected target

Listener: check the connection requests from clients, using the protocol and port you configure. There are no rules

Support protocol: TCP, TLS, UDP, TCP_UDP.
Support port: 1 - 65535

Network LB can decrypt traffic by install the cert on the LB. 
Network LB best suites for LB of TCP traffic where extreme performance is required. 

## Classic LB
You can use both layer 7 and strict layer 4 load balancing for app that rely purely on TCP protocol

When traffic is sent from a LB, the server access logs contain the IP address of the proxy or LB only. 
X-Forwardered-For: to see the original IP address of the client.

Gateway Time: app is having the issue could be web server layer or database layer. If app stop responding the Classic LB will responds with 504 error.

## Sticky Session
Classic LB route each request indenpendently to the registered EC2 instance with the smallest load. 
Sticky sessions allows you to bind a user's session to a specific EC2 instance. Can be useful when you're storing info locally to that instance. But when you remove an EC2 instance from a pool but the LB continues to direct traffic to that EC2 you need to stop sticky session.

You can enable sticky session with app LB but the traffic will be sent at the target group level.

## LB w/ Deregistration Delay (Connection Draining)

Deregistration Delay - allows LB to keep existing connection open if EC2 instances are de-registered or unhealthy. You can disable deregistration delay if you want to stop connection immediately. 