# Chatper 10

DNS is used to convert human friendly names into an IP 

IPv4: is 32 bit field and has over 4 billion diff addresses.
IPv6: is created to solve the depletion issue and 128 bits.

Top-Level Domain: last word in a domain name: for ie: bbc.co.uk (top level = .uk). Controlled by Internet Assigned Number Authority (IANI)

Domain registrar - an authority that can assign domain names directly under one or more top level domains

Start of Authority (SOA):
- name of the server that supplied data for the zone
- admin of the zone
- current version of the data file
- default number of seconds for the time-to-live file on resource records

NS - name server records: used by TLDS to direct traffic to content DNS that contains authoritative DNS records

A Record: is a fundamental type of DNS record. Use by computer to translate the name of the domain to an IP address

TTL: time to live - lenght of DNS records is cached on either the resolving server or local PC

CNAME: used to resolve one domain name to another  

Alias records are used to map resource record sets in your hosted zone to load balancers, CloudFront distributions, or S3 buckets that are configured as websites. 

7 Routing policies available with Route53
- Simple routing
    - one record with multiple IP addresses. Route53 returns all values to user in a random order.
- Weight routing
    - allows you to split traffic based on diff weights assigned.
    - Health Check on individual record sets. If a record set fails a health check, it will removed from Route53 until it passes the health check.
- Latency-Based routing
    - route traffic based on lowest network latency for your end user
- Failover routing
    - uses when you want to create an active/passive setup. 
- Geolocation routing
    - choose where traffic will be sent
- Geoproximity routing (Traffic flow only)
    - Traffic flow: build a routing traffic system that use a combo of geo, latency and availability 
    - route traffic to your resources based on geo location of users and resources. Route more traffic or less by specific value known as <b> bias </b>. Bias expands or shrinks size of geo region
- Multivalue Answer routing
    - Configure route53 to return multiple values. Similiar to simple routing with health check. Only return healthy resources. 
