# Migration

## Migrate Data in/out to/of the Cloud
Best way to get it to the Cloud:
- Internet: could be slow and security risk
- Direct Connect: fast and more secure
- Physical

## Snow Family
Snow Family is a set of secure appliances that provide petabyte-scale data collection and processing solutions at the edge and migrate large-scale data into and out of AWS. (Sake of HardDrive)

Snowcone - smallest device in the snow family. 8 TB storage and 4GB of memory and 2 vCPUs. Easily to migrate data to AWS after you've processed it. IoT sensor integration. 

Snowball Edge - (jack of all trades): 48TB - 81TB in storage. Storage, Computer and GPU flavors. Vary amount of CPU and RAM. One time migration to AWS. 

Snowmobile - (heavy hitter): 100 PB of storage. Designed for exabyte-scale data center migration.

## Storage Gateway
Storage GW - hybrid cloud storage service that helps you merge on-premises resources with the cloud. Good for one time and long-term pairing

File Gateway - NFS (network file share) or SMB mount. Keep a local copy of recently used files. Extend on-premises storage. 

Volume Gateway - iSCSI mount. Cached or stored mode. Create EBS snapshots. 

Tape Gateway - replace physical tapes. Does not change currently workflow. Encrytion.

## AWS Data Sync

Data Sync - agent-based solution for migrating on-premises storage to AWS. (one-time) Alows you to move data between NFS and SMB shares and AWS storage solutions. Supports S3, EFS and FSx


## Transfer Family
AWS Transfer Family - allows you to easily move files in/out of S3 or EFS using Secure File Transfer Protocol (SFTP), FTPS or the FTP.

## Migration Hub
Migration Hub - a single place to track the progress of the app migration to AWS. It integrates with Server migration Service (SMS) and Database Migration Service (DMS).







