# Chatper 8

## Relational Databases
Relational databases:
- Table: data is organized into tables
- Rows: data items
- Columns: fields in the database

SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MariaDB, Aurora

RDS advantages: multi-AZ, failover capability, automated backups

RDS used for online transaction processing (OLTP)

OLTP - data processing, complete large number of small transactions in real time. (RDS)
OLAP - processes complex queries to analyze historical data. (RedShift)

Multi-AZ RDS: have a separate copy of database in another AZ

## Increase Read Performance using Read Replica
Read replica: is a read-only copy of your primary database. It can be across AZ. Each read replica has its own DNS endpoint. It can promote to be independent database. Scaling performance, automatic backup, not disaster recovery

## AWS Aurora

Aurora - Amazon Database (MySQL and PostgreSQL compatable relational database) with speed and availability. 5x performance than MySQL and 3x than PostgreSQL database with much lower price. Starts 10 GBs and scale up to 10 GBs to 128 TBs. Compute resources scale up to 96 vCPUs and 768 GB of memory. 2 copies of your data in each AZ with min 3 AZs. 6 copies of your data.

3 types of Aurora replica: Aurora replicas (up to 15 replicas), MySQL replicas (up to 5 replicas), PostgreSQL (up to 5 replicas)

Backup with Aurora: automated backup enabled on Aurora DB instances. Do not affect the performance. Can snapshots with Aurora and sharable with other accounts. 

Aurora serverless - DB cluster auto starts up, shut down and scales capacity up aro down based on your apps. 


## Dynamo DB

Dyname DB - fast and flexible NoSQL database, single-digit millisecond latency at any scale. Fully managed database and supports both document and key-value data models. 

Facts about Dynamo - stored in SSD, spreed across 3 geo distinct data centers, eventually consistent read (default), strongly consistent read.

Eventually Consistent Read - consistently across all copies of data is usually reached within a second.
Strongly Consistent Read - returns a result that reflects all writes that received a successful response prior to the read.

DynamoDB Accelerator (DAX) - fully managed, high available, in-memory cache, 10x performance, milliseconds to microseconds, compatible with DynamoDB api calls

On-demand capacity: 
- pay per request pricing: balance cost and performance, no min capacity
- pay more per request than with provisioned capacity, use for new product launches

Security: Encrypt with KMS, site-to-site VPN, direct connect (DX), IAM policies and roles, fine-grained access, CloudWatch and CloudTrail, VPC endpoints

When do we use DynamoDB Transaction? 
ACID - Atomic Consistent Isolated Durable - ALL OR NOTHING 
- Atomic: all changes to the data must be perform successlly or not at all
- Consistent: data must be in consistent state before and after transaction
- Isolate: no other process can change the data while the transaction is running
- Durable: the change my by a transaction must persist

Use case for DynamoDB transaction: financial processing, fullfilling and managing orders, building multiple players game

DynamoDB backup: fully backup anytime, zero impact on performance or availability, consistent within seconds and retained until deleted, same region as source table.
Point-in-Time Recovery(PITR): protect against accidental writes or deletes, restore to any point in the last 5 days, incremental backups, not enabled by default, latest restorable (5 mins) in the past

DynamoDB stream - time ordered sequence of item-level changes in a table. FIFO stream of data. Stored for 24 hours. Stream records break into Shard. Insert, Update and Delete. Can be combine with Lambda.

Global Tables - managed multi-master, multi-region replication
