# Chapter 9

## Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) Networking

VPC - virtual data center in the cloud. Logic isolate part of AWS cloud where you define your own network. Complete control of virtual network, including your own IP address range, subnets, route tables and network gateways.

When create VPC: (10.0.0.0/16)
- It will create a Public subnet (10.0.1.0/24)
    - [Instance , Security Group] <- Network ACL <- Route Table <- Router <- Internet Gateway
- Also build a backend with Private subnet (10.0.2.0/24)
    - [Instance, Security Group] <- Network ACL <- Route Table <- Router <- Virtual Private Gateway


What we can do with VPC? 
- Launch Instances
- Custom IP address
- Route Tables
- Internet Gateway
- More Control
- Access Control Lists
- Block IP addresses using Network Access Control Lists (NACL)


Default VPC - user friendly, all subnets in default VPC have a route to the internet. Each EC2 both have a public and private address

Custom VPC - fully customizable, take time to setup

Note: when you first create a VPC by default it will create a new security group, a main network ACL, a route table.

1 subnet is always in 1 AZ

1 Internet gateway per VPC

## Use NAT Gateway for Internet Access

NAT Gateway: network address translation gateway to enable instances in private subnet to connect to the internet or other AWS services while preventing the internet from initiating a connection with those instances. 

Provision NAT Gateway in public subnet in the same AZ. NAT Gateway more than one instances that Amazon handle for you. 

5 Facts about NAT Gateway:
- Redundant inside the AZ
- Starts at 5 Gbs and scale to 45 Gbs
- No need to patch 
- Not associate with SGs
- Auto assign IP addresses


## Security Groups
Security Groups are stateful - if you send a request from your instance, the response traffic for that request is allowed to flow in regardless of inbound security group rules. Responses to allowed inbound traffic are allowed to flow out, regardless of outbound rules.


## Network ACL
Network ACL - first line of defense. Optional layer of security for your VPC act as firewall. 
- Default Network ACL: VPC comes with default. By default it allows both inbound and outbound traffic.
- Custom Network ACL: By default it denies all inbound and outbound traffic until you add rules.
- Subnet Associations: each subnet in VPC must associate with a network ACL. If not will auto associate with network ACL.
- Block IP addresses: block IP addresses using network ACLs, not security groups.

Note: you can associate a network ACL with multiple subnets but one subnet can be associated with only 1 network ACL. Network ACLs contains number of rules that evaluated in order starting with the lowest numbered rule. Have separate inbound and outbound rules, each can allow/deny traffic. Network ACLs are Stateless. 

## VPC Endpoints 
VPC endpoint allows you to privately connect to your VPC to support AWS services. VPC endpoint services powered by PrivateLink w/o internet gateway, NAT device, VPN connection, or AWS direct connection. Instances in VPC do not require public IP addresses to communicate with resource in service

Endpoints: horizontal scaled, redundant, and highly available VPC components that allows communication between instances in VPC and other services w/o imposing avialability risks or bandwidth constraints on network traffic. 

Two types of endpoints: 
- Interface Endpoint: elastic network interface with private IP. 
- Gateway Endpoint: similiar to NAT gateway, virtual device you provision

## VPCs with Peering

VPC peering:
- allow connection between 1 VPC to another via a direct network route using private IP
- instances behave as if they are on the same private network 
- peer VPCs in different AWS accounts as well as in the same accounts
- Is a star config (1 central VPC peers with 4 others). Not transitive
- Can be peer between regions

## Network Privacy with AWS PrivateLink
Open app to other via:
- Open VPC to the internet: security consideration. Everything in the public subnet is public
- VPC peering: create & manage different peering relationships. Not good if you have multiple apps within the VPC

Best way is to use <b> PrivateLink </b> : no VPC peering requires, no route tables, NAT Gateways, IGW. Requires a Network Load Balancer on the service VPC and an ENI on the customer VPC

## Secure network with VPN CloudHub
Use VPN CloudHub to connect multiple sites with each own VPN together. It's hub and spoke model, low cost and easy to manage, operate over the internet but all the traffic is encrypted.

## Connect On-Premises with Direct Connect
AWS Direct Connect - a cloud service to make easy to establish a dedicated network connection from your premises to AWS

You can establish private connectivity with Direct Connect

Two types:
- Dedicated connection: a physical ethernet connection associated with a single customer. Request thru AWS Direct Connect Console, API, CLI
- Hosted connection: a physical ethernet connection that an AWS Direct Connect Partner on behalf of the customer. (AT&T, Verizon) 

VPNs need to traver the public internet (secure can be slow)
Direct Connect: fast, secure, reliable, massive throughput

## Simply Network with Transit Gateway
Transit Gateway connects VPCs and on-premises networks thru a central hub. Acts as a cloud router, Hub & Spoke model, Region basis, can be use across multiple accounts using RAM (resource access manager)


