# Chapter 6

Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) - secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud

EC2 Pricing Options:
- On-demand: Pay by the hour or the second, depending on the type of instance
- Reserverd: Reserved capacity for 1 or 3 years. Up to 72% discount
- Spot: Purchased unused capacity at a discount of up to 90%. Prices fluctuate with supply and demand
- Dedicated: A physical EC2 server dedicated for your use. The most expensive option. 


On-demand:
- Flexible: low cost and flexibility
- Short-term: short-term, spiky or unpredictable
- Testing the water: app is developed or test on EC2 for first time

Reserved:
- Predictable usage
- Specific capacity requirements 
- Pay up Front
- Standard RIs

Security Group is a set of firewall rules that controll the traffice for your instance


AWS Command Line
Least Privilege - always giev your users the minimum amount of access required to do their job
Use Groups - create IAM groups and assign users to groups. Group permissions are assigned using IAM policy documents

Secret Access Key - password to use AWS CLI. 

CLI supports on Linux, Windows, MacOS

IAM Roles: is an identity you can create in IAM that has specific permissions. Similiar to user. 
Roles are temporary - does not have standard long-term creds (access keys or passwords). Assume role provides temp security creds for role session

Roles:
- Are preferred from a security standpoint
- Avoid hard-coding your credentials
- Policies control a role's permissions
- Update a policy attached to a role and it will take immediate effect
- Attach/detach roles to running EC2 instances without stop/terminate

Security Groups - virtual firewalls for your EC2 instance. By default everything is blocked. 

Boostrap Scripts - a script that runs when the instance first runs

- Changes to security groups take effect immediately
- You can have a number of EC2 instances within a security group
- You can have multiple security groups attached to EC2 instances
- All inbound traffic is blocked by default
- All outbound traffic is allowed

EC2 metadata - data aof EC2 instance (private IP, pub IPs, hostname, security groups, etc)

To receive metadata you can just use cURL
```
curl http://169.254.169.254/lastest/meta-data 
```

To receive userdata (bootstrap script) you can use cURL
```
curl http://169.254.169.254/lastest/user-data
```

Networking with EC2
3 types of virtual networking cards that you can attach to EC2
- ENI - Elastic Network Interface: day-to-day networking. 
  - virutal network cards
  - Private and Public IPv4 addresses
  - Many IPv6
  - MAC address
  - 1 or more security groups
  - Use Cases:
    - mgmt network
    - network and security appliances in VPC
    - dual-homed instances with workloads/roles on distinct subnets
    - low budget, high availability solution
- EN - Enhanced Networking: uses single root I/O virutalization (SR-IOV) to provide high performance
  - High performance 10 GB - 100GB
  - Signle rool I/O virtualization (SR-IOV): provides higher I/O performance and lower CPU utlization
  - Performance: higher bandwidth, higher packet per second (PPS), performance, and consistently lower inter-instance latencies
  - EN can be used between <b> Elastic Network Adapter (ENA)</b> vs <b>Intel 82599 Virutal Function (VF) Interface</b>
    - ENA - supports network speeds up to 100 GBs
    - VF - supports network speeds up to 10 GBs
- EFA - Elastic Fabric Adapter: accelerates High Performance Computing (HPC) and machine learning applications
  - provides lower and more consistent latency and higher throughput than TCP transport. Used in cloud-based HPC system
  - <b> OS-BYPASS </b>: bypass the OS kernel and communicate directly with EFA device. Not support on Windows

Optimizing EC2 with Placement Groups
3 Types of Placement Groups
- Cluster
  - grouping of instancs within a single AZ. Recommend for app that needs low network, latency, high network throughput or both
- Spread
  - a group of instance that are each palced on distinct underlying hardware. Individual instances
- Partition
  - Each partition placement group has its own set of racks. Each rack has its own network and power source. Multiple instances

- Only certain types of instances can be launched in a placement group (Computer Optimized, GPU, memory optimized, storage optimized)
- AWS recommends homogenous instances within cluster placement groups
- You can't merge placement groups
- You can move an existing instance to a placement groups

Any question about special licensing requirements.
Dedicated Host is a phyiscal server with EC2 instance capacity fully dedicated to your use. It allows you to use your existing per-socket, per-core or per-VM software licenses including Windows Server, MS SQL Server
