# Chapter 17

Layer 4 DDos - syn flood

Syn Flood - uses the build in patience of the TCP stack to overwhelm a server by sending a large SYN packets and ignore the SYN-ACKs returns by the server 

Application Attack - attack send a 3rd party server a request using a spoofed IP addresses. (NTP, SSDP, DNS, CharGen, SNMP attacks). The server will then respond to that request with a greater payload than the initial request to the spoofed IP addresses. 

Layer 7 DDos - a flood of GET/POST requests (using BotNet)

## CloudTrail
CloudTrail - tool to record AWS console actions and API calls. Which account, IP addresses , when...

CloudTrail cannot log SSH/RDP

What can CT log? 
- Metadata
- Identity
- Time 
- IP
- Request Parameters
- Response Element

CT allows:
- after the fact incident investigation
- near real-time intrusion detection
- industry and regulatory compliance

## Protecting App using Shield

Shield - free DDos protections. Protects on ELB, CloudFront, Route 53, SYN-Flood, Layer 3 and Layer 4 attacks

Shield Advance - enhanced version, always-on flow based monitoring, 24/7 DDos Response Team (DRT), Protect AWS Bill

Cost of Shield - 3K/month

## Filter traffic with WAF

WAF - Web Application Firewall let you monitor HTTP/HTTPs that forwarded to ELB or CloudFront. At Layer 7. 

WAF allows: allow all requests, block all requests, count all requests. Filter by IP, Country, Values, Presence of SQL, Presence of Script, String appear in requests


## GuardDuty
GuardDuty - a threat detection service that use ML to detect/monitor for malicious behavior. Threat detection with AI

GuardDuty features:
- Alerts (in GuardDuty console or CW)
- Receives feeds from ProofPoint or CrowdStrike
- Monitors CT logs, VPC flow logs, DNS logs 
- Centralize threat detection
- Automate response

## Monitor S3 with Macie
Macie - automated analysis of data. Use AI to discover PII in S3. Going to alerts if unencrypted bucket, alerts public buckets 

Macie alerts:
- send to EventBridge can be integrated with your security incident and event mgmt system
- integrate with AWS Security Hub 
- integtate with Step Functions

## Inspector
Inspector - automated security assessment service that helps improve the security and compliance of app delayed on AWS. (Vulnerability scan on Network or EC2 instances)

Assessment Findings: detailed list of security findings  prioritized by severity level

2 types of Asessments:
- Network
- Host 

How does it work?
- Create assessment target
- Install agent on EC2
- Create asessment template
- Perform the run
- Review the findings

## Managing Encryption Keys with Key Management Service (KMS) and CloudHSM

KMS - managed service that makes it easy for you to create and control the encryption keys used to encrypt your data

Integrate with EBS, S3, RDS. Centralized control of Keys.

CMK - customer master key. Includes metadata (Key ID, creation date, description and key state). Contains key material used to encrypt and decrypt data. 

HSM - hard ware security module - physical computing device that safeguards and manages digital keys and performs encryption and decryption functions. Contains one or more secure cryptoprocesor chips.

3 ways to generate CMK:
- AWS creates it 
- Import key from your own key management infra
- Have the key material generated and used in an AWS CloudHSM cluster as part of custom key store feature in KMS

Key Rotation: AWS KMS rotate every year automatically. Only support key created by AWS

Policies: resoure based policies

Key Policies: In KMS, you must attached resource-based policies to your CMK. All KMS CMKs have a key policy. 

3 ways to control permissions:
- Use key policy
- Use IAM + key policy
- Use grants + the key policy

CloudHSM - cloud based HSM with easily generate and use your own encryption keys on the Cloud

## Secret Manager
Secrete Manager - securely stores, encrypts and rotates database creds and other secrets. Encrypt in transit and at rest

What can be stored?
- RDS creds
- Creds for non-RDS
- key-value pairs

If you enable secrets rotation, Secrets Manager immediately rotates the secret once to test the configuration. Ensure all apps that use the creds are updated to retrieve the creds

If your app still use embedded creds, DO NOT enable rotation because the embedded creds will no longer work and break your app

## Parameter Store
Parameter Store - capability of AWS Systems Manager that provides secure, hierachical storage for configuration data management and secrets managements

You can store:
- password
- database strings
- AMI
- license code as parameter values
- plain text or encrypted data

Limit 10,000 
It is FREE
No key rotation

## Temp Share S3 Obj using Presigned URL or Cookies
Presigned URL - use to give access with specified duration with your security creds

Presigned Cookies - when you want to provide access to multiple restricted files

## Advanced IAM Policy Docs
Permission Boundaries 
- deligate admin to other users
- prevent privilege escalation or unnecessarily board permissions
- control max permissions an IAM policy can grant

## AWS Cert Manager
It allows you to create, manage and deploy public and private SSL certs with other services

- Cost: No more paying for SSL certs
- Automated Renewals and Deployment
- Ease to setup 

