# Chapter 5

What is S3?
Simple Storage Service

Object Storage: secure, durable, highly scalable
Scalable: store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere
Simple: easy to use with simple web interface

S3 manages data as objects. Upload any file type (photo, vidoes, code, documents). Place to store static files.

S3 is unlimited storage. Objects up to 5TB. S3 bucket is folder in S3

S3 cannot install operating system 

All AWS accounts share the S3 namespace. Each S3 bucket name is globally unique.
S3 Bucket URL format: https://<nameOfBucket>.s3.<Region>/<fileName>

Successfully upload you will receive 200 status code

S3 key-value store

S3 is a safe place - availability (99.95% - 99.99%) & durability (99.9999%).

S3 Standard - default version of S3. Data is stored redundantly across multiple devices in multiple facilities (>= 3 AZs)

Within S3:
- Tiered Storage
- Lifecycle Mgmt
- Versioning


Secure your data in S3:
Server-side encryption on S3
Access Control List (ACLs)
Bucket policies

S3 consists of: Key (Obj name), Value(Data), Version, Metadata (Data about the data: content-type, last-modified)

S3 bucket is private by default 

S3 can host a static websites such as .html sites

S3 Scales automatically

S3 Bucket policies make the entire bucket public

Advantages of Versioning:
- All versions
- Backup
- Cannot be disabled
- Lifecycle Rules
- Support MFA


S3 Standard-Infrequent Access (S3 Standard-IA)
Rapid Access - used for data that is accessed less frequently but requires rapid access when needed
You pay to Access the Data - low per-GB storage price and a per-GB retrieval fee
Use cases - great for long-term storage, backups and as a data store for disater recovery files


S3 one zone-infrequent access
Similiar to S3 Standard-IA but data is stored redundantly within a single AZ. Cost 20% less than regular S3 Standard-IA.

S3 Intelligent-Tiering - automatically moves your data to the most cost effectively

3 Glacier Options - way of archiving data for long-term. Use for archiving data. You pay each time you access your data. 
Glacier Instant Retrieval
Glacier Flexible Retrieval
Glacier Depp Archive

Lifecycle Mgmt - automates moving your objects between the different storage tiers. Can be used in conjunction with versioning. Can be applied to current and previous versions

S3 Object Lock and Glaicer Vault Lock: 
Two modes: Governance mode and Compliance mode

S3 Object Lock - to store objects using a write once, read many (WORM) model. 

Governance mode - cannot overwrite or delete an object version or alter its lock settings unless they have special permissions.
Compliance mode - cannot overwrite or deelte an object by any user.

Retention Periods - protects an object version for a fixed amount of time
Legal Holds - S3 object lock - it prevents an object version from being overwritten or deleted

Glacier Vault Lock - easily deply and enforce compliance controls for individual S3 Glacier vaults with a vault lock policy. Apply WORM model to Glacier.

Encryption on S3 Objects

Types of Encryption
- Encryption in Transit: SSL/TLS, HTTPS
- Encryption at Rest: Server-side Encryption: SSE-S3 (S3 managed keys), SSE-KMS (AWS Key Management Service-managed keys), SSE-C (Customer-provided keys)
- Encryption at Rest: Client-side Encryption: encrypt the files before upload to S3

You can create Bucket policy that deny any request that does not include the x-amz-server-side-encryption parameter in the request header to enforcing bucket encryption.

Optimizing S3
S3 prefixes - S3 folder(s) in the bucket
3500 requests for PUT/COPY/POST/DELETE and 5500 GET/HEAD 
For ie: if you used all 4 prefixes you would achieve 22000 requests per second

S3 Limitations when using KMS: KMS limits when you use SSE-KMS to encrypt your objects in S3. When upload a file, you will call GenerateDataKey in the KMS API
KMS Request Rates: uploading/downloading will count toward the KMS quota. You cannot request a quota increase for KMS. Region-specific, it's either 5500, 10000 or 30000 requests per second.

S3 Performance Uploads:
- Multipart Uplaods: files over 100MB, required for 5GB+, parallelize upalods 
S3 Peformance DOwnloads:
- S3 Byte-Range Fetches: Parallelize download by specifying byte ranges

Backing Up Data with S3 Replication
S3 Replication - replication objects from one to another. Versioning must be enabled for both the source and destination. 
Objects in an existing bucket are not replicated automatically. Delete markers are not replicated by default.

