# Chapter 13

Verticle Scaling: scale the spec of EC2 instances
Horizontal Scaling: scale the number of EC2 instances (in multiple AZs)

3's W of Scaling
What?: we have to decide what sort of resource we're going to scale. what database? what instances?
Where?: where does it go? which VPC? 
When?: how do we know we need more? CW alarms we need to add more resources?

## Launch Templates and Configurations "What"
Launch Templates specifies all the needed settings that goes into building out an EC2 instance. It is a collection of settings that you can configure. 

Templates: more than autoscaling, versioning, granuality, AWS recommended.

Configurations: only for autoscaling, immuatable, limited configuration options, Don't use them.

In a template includes AMI, EC2 instance size, security groups and network information. If you have network info in the template you cannot use autoscaling group.

## Auto Scaling Groups "Where"
ASG contains a collection of EC2 instances that are threated as a collective group for purposes of scaling and management.

In ASG you need to have:
- A define template
- Network space and purchasing options (multiple AZs for high availability)
- ELB sit infront of ASG (EC2 can be registered behind a LB). ASG can use health of ELB
- Set scaling policies: min/max capacity needed
- Notification: SNS act as a notification tool when scaling event occurs

3 Important things to set in ASG
- Minimum
- Maximum
- Desired

## ASG Policies "When"
For ie: 
- Scaling Out - add 10 instances when memory is between 60% - 80% and add 15 instances when memory is between 80% - 100%
- Scaling In - terminate 10 instances when memory is between 40% - 20% and terminate 15 instances when memory is between 20% - 0%

Warm up: stop instances from being placed behind the LB, failing the Health Check and being terminated. 
Cool down: default window is 5 minutes, pause auto scaling for a set amount of time. Help to avoid runaway scaling events.
Avoid Thrashing: create instances quickly and spin down slowly.

Scaling Types:
- Reactive: once the load is there, you measure it and then determine if you need to create more resources.
- Schedule: a predictable workload, create a scaling event to get your resource ready before needed.
- Predictive: ML algorithms to determine when you need to scale. AWS reevaluated every 24 hours to create forcast for the next 48.

## Scale Relational Databases
4 ways to scale:
- Verticle: resizing the database from one size to another can create greater performance 
- Storage: resize storage ONLY up not down
- Read replicas: create read-only copies of your data can help spread out of the workload
- Aurora Serverless: offload scaling to AWS. Excels with unpredictable workloads
